 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 Poison. Target suffers poisoned condition on failed DC 12 CON save
 Target can understand and only speak the regional language
 Heals d6 + CON hit points
 Severe dehydration - suffer 1 level of exhaustion every 30 minutes until you drink 5 litres of water
 Lightfoot - advantage on stealth checks to move silently
 Antidote
 All animals (incl. pets and animal companions) hate target
 Poisonous unless cooked (DC 13 CON save, poisoned condition) in which case it provides a day's worth of nourishment
 If boiled in d4 litres of water for 4 hours, the reduced liquid works as a potion of healing (enough for 2 doses). Loses 1d4 potency each day after the first
 Gastritis, curable by any restoration spell or d6 days of bed rest. Target suffers 1 level of exhaustion after each day of activity whilst affected
 Hot hands, capable of burning self and igniting flammable objects. d6 fire damage, touch
 Target can walk on walls
 Target can walk on walls and ceilings
 Target experiences zero gravity
 Skin colour changes for d6 days. Roll a d8. 1-7: rainbow colours; 8: invisibility but any held/worn objects are still visible (lasts d20 + 4 hours)
 The extracted oils numb the body against pain for 2 rounds. The target ignores damage for the duration (even if reduced to 0 hit points). After the duration elapses, targets suffers from the accumulated damage plus bonus 1d10 psychic damage (only if damage sustained)
 Polymorph into a random animal (roll on random animal table)
 Eyes water uncontrollably for 3 rounds. Treat vision as lightly obscured
 Descend through open space at feather speed
 When burned, tastes like bacon. However, something will feel off about it
 Polymorph into an intelligent regional creature (GM discretion)
 Polymorph into the most recently touched animal
 Polymorph into a random humanoid (roll on random humanoid table)
 Polymorph into the most recently touched humanoid
 True darkvision. Lasts 8 hours
 The extracted oils numb the body against pain for 4 rounds. The target ignores damage for the duration (even if reduced to 0 hit points). After the duration elapses, target suffers from the accumulated damage plus bonus 2d10 psychic damage (only if damage sustained)
 When ground into a paste with water, it can melt through up to 1 inch of non-adamantine metal when applied. One vial of paste can affect a surface area of up to 1 sq. foot (Note it is very difficult to effectively apply during combat)
 Chewing gives resistance versus random damage type. Swallowing deals 3d8 poison damage (1/2 on a successful DC 15 CON save)
 Vegetables taste like meat and vice-versa. Grains taste like lard. Lard tastes like blood
 Savoury and sweet tastes are reversed
 Anything consumed by the target is bland, but edible (poisons will still act as normal however)
 All ingested poison is neutralised. Lasts 3 hours
 If spat on by a diseased creature and then roasted, it cures that disease when consumed
 Poison. Blind on failed DC 14 CON save
 Makes skin hypersensitive
 The extracted oils numb the body against pain for 6 rounds. The target ignores damage for the duration (even if reduced to 0 hit points). After the duration elapses, target suffers from the accumulated damage plus bonus 3d10 psychic damage (only if damage sustained)
 Target's skin thickens. Resistance to piercing and slashing damage
 Target moves at double speed for d4 rounds
 Target sneezes whenever a random creature (roll on random creature table) is within 100ft
 Plant glows whenever a random creature (roll on random creature table) is within 75ft
 Can be used to prepare a herbal poultice. 12 hours of successful preparation required. Heals 1d4 hit points every hour for 6 hours. If the poultice isn't removed after 8 hours, there is a 15% chance of infection
 Can be used to prepare a herbal poultice. 1 day of successful preparation required. Heals 1d6 hit points every hour for 6 hours. If the poultice isn't removed after 8 hours, there is a 15% chance of infection
 Can be used to prepare a herbal poultice. 2 days of successful preparation required. Heals 1d8 + CON mod hit points every hour for 6 hours. If the poultice isn't removed after 8 hours, there is a 15% chance of infection
 Plant screams when burned, deafening all creatures within a 20' radius on a failed DC 13 WIS save
 Two creatures that consume this (1 each) are able to communicate telepathically across up to 100 miles. Lasts 1 day
 Target becomes irresistable to men
 Target becomes irresistable to women
 All animals are friendly towards the target. Lasts 1 minute
 All animals are friendly towards the target. They will become inconveniently so after d4 rounds. Lasts 6 rounds. The plant looks almost identical to #52
 Target sheds its skin (there is new skin beneath), which is wearable by a creature of similar build
 Target's bones turn to jelly
 Target's Strength score increases by 5 for 1 minute. After the duration elapses, there is a 40% chance of muscles tearing
 Target's Dexterity score increases by 5 for 1 minute. After the duration elapses, target gains 2 levels of exhaustion
 Closest NPC will be drawn to the location of the target
 Shaped like a tuning fork, each prong resonates when close to the other. A consuming creature knows the location of the other prong for the duration
 Masks target's scent
 The distilled liquid of this plant makes metal extremely brittle. 1 vial can affect up to 1 sq. foot of metal
 Induces vomiting when consumed
 Target's sense of direction is reversed for d6 rounds
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 Tastes awful, yet is more-ish
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 No effect
 Tastes like a good meal from the target's childhood. The wave of nostalgia overwhelms the target for d6 minutes
 Antidote
 Antidote
 Functions as an antidote if steamed
 The distilled liquid obtained from this induces amnesia when consumed. Condition lasts d6 days
 Target can breathe underwater for 3 hours
 Target can understand and verbally communicate with a random animal (roll on the random animal table). Lasts 30 minutes
 Changes target's hair colour when consumed
 Releases a cloud of spores upon impact. All creatures in a 15ft radius fall asleep on a failed DC 14 CON save
 Target falls asleep on a failed DC 15 CON save. Regains 2d10 hit points if it sleeps for at least 1 hour
 When simmered for 8 hours with the skin removed, the consuming target's body turns cold and their heartrate greatly decreases. Their condition is otherwise unchanged. Great for feigning death. Lasts d20 hours
 Target drains and stores heat from external sources. This heat may then be released by touching another creature or object. Every time heat is stored, there is a 10% chance of internal combustion. Effect lasts d10 minutes, after which point internal combustion occurs
 Target smells exquisite. People like them. Carnivorous creatures desire them. Lasts 4 hours
 Target becomes incredibly imposing to others. Enemies will not attack target unless there is no other reasonable choice
 Can be ground into a paste to make a strong glue. Sets and dries in 1 minute when in contact with air or water. Requires DC 20 STR check to break bond
 Juice is highly acidic and difficult to safely obtain. Deals 3d10 acid damage
 Target's skin glows in the dark for d8 hours
 Every creature the target touches becomes covered in painful boils on a failed DC 13 CON save
 Target is immune to and may (via touch) dispel any magic of d8th level or lower for d8 rounds
 Target's body becomes wet and slippery, reducing friction to zero. Makes them harder to hit, among other things. Lasts d10 hours
 Target gains d100 + 40 pounds
 Target's body instantaneously converts all body fat into energy. All Strength, Dexterity and Intelligence rolls have a +5 bonus. Duration is d4 + 1 rounds or otherwise at GM's discretion (maybe the target has a lot of fat). Target then suffers 3 levels of exhaustion
 Target's body sprouts a random, fully-functional, monstrous body part. Roll a d6 - 1: claw, 2: spiked tail, 3: spider legs, 4: tentacles, 5: wings, 6: third eye
 Target immediately knows how to use whatever they are currently touching and what it is used for. 5% chance that this is a hallucination
 For 1 year, intelligent creatures within a 20 mile radius at the time of consumption view the target as a god-like entity and will follow them without question
